= rails-xmlrpc

Rails has native support for xmlrpc. Most people are familiar with the 'xmlrpc/client' library.  The 'xmlrpc/server' library examples mostly make an assumption that you will run a standalone server.

rails-xmlrpc allows you to instead expose normal Rails controller methods via XMLRPC, tied to an xmlrpc endpoint route in your app.

==Install

Run in terminal:
  gem install rails-xmlrpc

=== For Rails 2
Add row to environment.rb inside  Rails::Initializer block:
  config.gem "rails-xmlrpc"

Add row to routes.rb
  map.connect 'api/xmlrpc', :controller => 'my_controller', :action => 'xe_index'

=== For Rails 3
Add row to Gemfile:
  gem "rails-xmlrpc"

Set up a route in your routes.rb file
  match 'api/xmlrpc' => 'my#xe_index'


== Examples
Add this code to your controller:

  class MyController < ApplicationController
    exposes_xmlrpc_methods
    
    add_method 'Container.method_name' do
      return 'Hello World'
    end

  end

Then, pointing an XMLRPC client at the defined route, your normal controller actions will handle the requests.

  require 'xmlrpc/client'
  server = XMLRPC::Client.new2("http://localhost:3000/api/xmlrpc")
  server.call("Container.method_name")

To use a custom namespace prefix on all exposed methods (for example, if using someone else's specified protocol like MetaWeblog[http://www.xmlrpc.com/metaWeblogApi]), declare a method_prefix:

  class MyApiController < ApplicationController
    exposes_xmlrpc_methods :method_prefix => "metaWeblog."
    
    # This method will be exposed externally as "metaWeblog.newPost()"
    def newPost(blogid, username, password, struct, publish)
    ...
    end
  end


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Aleksei Kvitinskii, released under the MIT license.
